docs/2.guide/1.concepts/8.typescript.md, before:

---
title: 'TypeScript'
description: "Nuxt 3 is fully typed and provides helpful shortcuts to ensure you have access to accurate type information when you are coding."
---

## Type-checking

By default, Nuxt doesn't check types when you run [`nuxi dev`](/docs/api/commands/dev) or [`nuxi build`](/docs/api/commands/build), for performance reasons.

To enable type-checking at build or development time, install `vue-tsc` and `typescript` as development dependency:

::code-group

  ```bash [yarn]
  yarn add --dev vue-tsc typescript
  ```

  ```bash [npm]
  npm install --save-dev vue-tsc typescript
  ```

  ```bash [pnpm]
  pnpm add -D vue-tsc typescript
  ```

  ```bash [bun]
  bun add -D vue-tsc typescript
  ```

::

Then, run [`nuxi typecheck`](/docs/api/commands/typecheck) command to check your types:

```bash [Terminal]
npx nuxi typecheck
```

To enable type-checking at build time, you can also use the [`typescript.typeCheck`](/docs/api/nuxt-config#typecheck) option in your `nuxt.config` file:

```ts twoslash [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  typescript: {
    typeCheck: true
  }
})
```

## Auto-generated Types

When you run `nuxi dev` or `nuxi build`, Nuxt generates the following files for IDE type support (and type checking):

### `.nuxt/nuxt.d.ts`

This file contains the types of any modules you are using, as well as the key types that Nuxt 3 requires. Your IDE should recognize these types automatically.

Some of the references in the file are to files that are only generated within your `buildDir` (`.nuxt`) and therefore for full typings, you will need to run `nuxi dev` or `nuxi build`.

### `.nuxt/tsconfig.json`

This file contains the recommended basic TypeScript configuration for your project, including resolved aliases injected by Nuxt or modules you are using, so you can get full type support and path auto-complete for aliases like `~/file` or `#build/file`.

[Read more about how to extend this configuration](/docs/guide/directory-structure/tsconfig).

::note
Nitro also [auto-generates types](/docs/guide/concepts/server-engine#typed-api-routes) for API routes. Plus, Nuxt also generates types for globally available components and [auto-imports from your composables](/docs/guide/directory-structure/composables), plus other core functionality.
::

::note
Keep in mind that all options extended from `./.nuxt/tsconfig.json` will be overwritten by the options defined in your `tsconfig.json`.
Overwriting options such as `"compilerOptions.paths"` with your own configuration will lead TypeScript to not factor in the module resolutions from `./.nuxt/tsconfig.json`. This can lead to module resolutions such as `#imports` not being recognized.
:br :br
In case you need to extend options provided by `./.nuxt/tsconfig.json` further, you can use the [`alias` property](/docs/api/nuxt-config#alias) within your `nuxt.config`. `nuxi` will pick them up and extend `./.nuxt/tsconfig.json` accordingly.
::

## Stricter Checks

TypeScript comes with certain checks to give you more safety and analysis of your program.

Once you’ve converted your codebase to TypeScript and felt familiar with it, you can start enabling these checks for greater safety ([read more](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/migrating-from-javascript.html#getting-stricter-checks)).

In order to enable strict type checking, you have to update `nuxt.config`:

```ts twoslash [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  typescript: {
    strict: true
  }
})
```

Commit message:

docs: add warning about latest `vue-tsc` (#26083)

docs/2.guide/1.concepts/8.typescript.md, after:

---
title: 'TypeScript'
description: "Nuxt 3 is fully typed and provides helpful shortcuts to ensure you have access to accurate type information when you are coding."
---

## Type-checking

By default, Nuxt doesn't check types when you run [`nuxi dev`](/docs/api/commands/dev) or [`nuxi build`](/docs/api/commands/build), for performance reasons.

To enable type-checking at build or development time, install `vue-tsc` and `typescript` as development dependency:

::alert{type="warning"}
You may experience issues with the latest `vue-tsc` and `vite-plugin-checker`, used internally when type checking. For now, you may need to stay on v1 of `vue-tsc`, and follow these upstream issues for updates: [fi3ework/vite-plugin-checker#306](https://github.com/fi3ework/vite-plugin-checker/issues/306) and [vuejs/language-tools#3969](https://github.com/vuejs/language-tools/issues/3969).
::

::code-group

  ```bash [yarn]
  yarn add --dev vue-tsc@^1 typescript
  ```

  ```bash [npm]
  npm install --save-dev vue-tsc@^1 typescript
  ```

  ```bash [pnpm]
  pnpm add -D vue-tsc@^1 typescript
  ```

  ```bash [bun]
  bun add -D vue-tsc@^1 typescript
  ```

::

Then, run [`nuxi typecheck`](/docs/api/commands/typecheck) command to check your types:

```bash [Terminal]
npx nuxi typecheck
```

To enable type-checking at build time, you can also use the [`typescript.typeCheck`](/docs/api/nuxt-config#typecheck) option in your `nuxt.config` file:

```ts twoslash [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  typescript: {
    typeCheck: true
  }
})
```

## Auto-generated Types

When you run `nuxi dev` or `nuxi build`, Nuxt generates the following files for IDE type support (and type checking):

### `.nuxt/nuxt.d.ts`

This file contains the types of any modules you are using, as well as the key types that Nuxt 3 requires. Your IDE should recognize these types automatically.

Some of the references in the file are to files that are only generated within your `buildDir` (`.nuxt`) and therefore for full typings, you will need to run `nuxi dev` or `nuxi build`.

### `.nuxt/tsconfig.json`

This file contains the recommended basic TypeScript configuration for your project, including resolved aliases injected by Nuxt or modules you are using, so you can get full type support and path auto-complete for aliases like `~/file` or `#build/file`.

[Read more about how to extend this configuration](/docs/guide/directory-structure/tsconfig).

::note
Nitro also [auto-generates types](/docs/guide/concepts/server-engine#typed-api-routes) for API routes. Plus, Nuxt also generates types for globally available components and [auto-imports from your composables](/docs/guide/directory-structure/composables), plus other core functionality.
::

::note
Keep in mind that all options extended from `./.nuxt/tsconfig.json` will be overwritten by the options defined in your `tsconfig.json`.
Overwriting options such as `"compilerOptions.paths"` with your own configuration will lead TypeScript to not factor in the module resolutions from `./.nuxt/tsconfig.json`. This can lead to module resolutions such as `#imports` not being recognized.
:br :br
In case you need to extend options provided by `./.nuxt/tsconfig.json` further, you can use the [`alias` property](/docs/api/nuxt-config#alias) within your `nuxt.config`. `nuxi` will pick them up and extend `./.nuxt/tsconfig.json` accordingly.
::

## Stricter Checks

TypeScript comes with certain checks to give you more safety and analysis of your program.

Once you’ve converted your codebase to TypeScript and felt familiar with it, you can start enabling these checks for greater safety ([read more](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/migrating-from-javascript.html#getting-stricter-checks)).

In order to enable strict type checking, you have to update `nuxt.config`:

```ts twoslash [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  typescript: {
    strict: true
  }
})
```
