docs/3.api/1.components/12.nuxt-route-announcer.md, before:

---
title: '<NuxtRouteAnnouncer>'
description: 'Add a hidden element with the page title for assistive technologies.'
navigation:
  badge: New
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/components/nuxt-route-announcer.ts
    size: xs
---

::important
This component will be available in Nuxt v3.12.
::

## Usage

Add `<NuxtRouteAnnouncer/>` in your [`app.vue`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/app) or [`layouts/`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/layouts) to enhance accessibility by informing assistive technologies about page's title changes. This ensures that navigational changes are announced to users relying on screen readers.

```vue [app.vue]
<template>
  <NuxtRouteAnnouncer />
  <NuxtLayout>
    <NuxtPage />
  </NuxtLayout>
</template>
```

## Slots

You can pass custom HTML or components through the route announcer default slot.

```vue
  <template>
    <NuxtRouteAnnouncer>
      <template #default="{ message }">
        <p>{{ message }} was loaded.</p>
      </template>
    </NuxtRouteAnnouncer>
  </template>
```

## Props

- `atomic`: Controls if screen readers announce only changes or the entire content. Set to true for full content readout on updates, false for changes only. (default `false`)
- `politeness`: Sets the urgency for screen reader announcements: `off` (disable the announcement), `polite` (waits for silence), or `assertive` (interrupts immediately). (default `polite`)

::callout
This component is optional. :br
To achieve full customization, you can implement your own one based on [its source code](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/components/nuxt-route-announcer.ts).
::

::callout
You can hook into the underlying announcer instance using [the `useRouteAnnouncer` composable](/docs/api/composables/use-route-announcer), which allows you to set a custom announcement message.
::

Commit message:

docs: mention nightly release channel for unreleased features

docs/3.api/1.components/12.nuxt-route-announcer.md, after:

---
title: '<NuxtRouteAnnouncer>'
description: 'Add a hidden element with the page title for assistive technologies.'
navigation:
  badge: New
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/components/nuxt-route-announcer.ts
    size: xs
---

::important
This component will be available in Nuxt v3.12 or in [the nightly release channel](/docs/guide/going-further/nightly-release-channel).
::

## Usage

Add `<NuxtRouteAnnouncer/>` in your [`app.vue`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/app) or [`layouts/`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/layouts) to enhance accessibility by informing assistive technologies about page's title changes. This ensures that navigational changes are announced to users relying on screen readers.

```vue [app.vue]
<template>
  <NuxtRouteAnnouncer />
  <NuxtLayout>
    <NuxtPage />
  </NuxtLayout>
</template>
```

## Slots

You can pass custom HTML or components through the route announcer default slot.

```vue
  <template>
    <NuxtRouteAnnouncer>
      <template #default="{ message }">
        <p>{{ message }} was loaded.</p>
      </template>
    </NuxtRouteAnnouncer>
  </template>
```

## Props

- `atomic`: Controls if screen readers announce only changes or the entire content. Set to true for full content readout on updates, false for changes only. (default `false`)
- `politeness`: Sets the urgency for screen reader announcements: `off` (disable the announcement), `polite` (waits for silence), or `assertive` (interrupts immediately). (default `polite`)

::callout
This component is optional. :br
To achieve full customization, you can implement your own one based on [its source code](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/components/nuxt-route-announcer.ts).
::

::callout
You can hook into the underlying announcer instance using [the `useRouteAnnouncer` composable](/docs/api/composables/use-route-announcer), which allows you to set a custom announcement message.
::
