docs/3.api/1.components/8.nuxt-island.md, before:

---
title: "<NuxtIsland>"
description: "Nuxt provides the <NuxtIsland> component to render a non-interactive component without any client JS."
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/components/nuxt-island.ts
    size: xs
---

When rendering an island component, the content of the island component is static, thus no JS is downloaded client-side.

Changing the island component props triggers a refetch of the island component to re-render it again.

::read-more{to="/docs/guide/going-further/experimental-features#componentislands" icon="i-ph-star-duotone"}
This component is experimental and in order to use it you must enable the `experimental.componentIslands` option in your `nuxt.config`.
::

::callout
Global styles of your application are sent with the response.
::

::callout
Server only components use `<NuxtIsland>` under the hood
::

## Props

- `name` : Name of the component to render.
  - **type**: `string`
  - **required**
- `lazy`: Make the component non-blocking.
  - **type**: `boolean`
  - **default**: `false`
- `props`: Props to send to the component to render.
  - **type**: `Record<string, any>`
- `source`: Remote source to call the island to render.
  - **type**: `string`

::callout{color="blue" icon="i-ph-info-duotone"}
Remote islands need `experimental.componentIslands` to be `'local+remote'` in your `nuxt.config`.
::

## Slots

Slots can be passed to an island component if declared.

Every slot is interactive since the parent component is the one providing it.

Some slots are reserved to `NuxtIsland` for special cases.

- `#fallback`: Specify the content to be rendered before the island loads (if the component is lazy) or if `NuxtIsland` fails to fetch the component.

## Ref

- `refresh()`
  - **type**: `() => Promise<void>`
  - **description**: force refetch the server component by refetching it.

Commit message:

feat(nuxt): allow client components within `NuxtIsland` (#22649)

docs/3.api/1.components/8.nuxt-island.md, after:

---
title: "<NuxtIsland>"
description: "Nuxt provides the <NuxtIsland> component to render a non-interactive component without any client JS."
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/components/nuxt-island.ts
    size: xs
---

When rendering an island component, the content of the island component is static, thus no JS is downloaded client-side.

Changing the island component props triggers a refetch of the island component to re-render it again.

::read-more{to="/docs/guide/going-further/experimental-features#componentislands" icon="i-ph-star-duotone"}
This component is experimental and in order to use it you must enable the `experimental.componentIslands` option in your `nuxt.config`.
::

::callout
Global styles of your application are sent with the response.
::

::callout
Server only components use `<NuxtIsland>` under the hood
::

## Props

- `name` : Name of the component to render.
  - **type**: `string`
  - **required**
- `lazy`: Make the component non-blocking.
  - **type**: `boolean`
  - **default**: `false`
- `props`: Props to send to the component to render.
  - **type**: `Record<string, any>`
- `source`: Remote source to call the island to render.
  - **type**: `string`
- **dangerouslyLoadClientComponents**: Required to load components from a remote source.
  - **type**: `boolean`
  - **default**: `false`

::callout{color="blue" icon="i-ph-info-duotone"}
Remote islands need `experimental.componentIslands` to be `'local+remote'` in your `nuxt.config`.
It is strongly discouraged to enable `dangerouslyLoadClientComponents` as you can't trust a remote server's javascript.
::

## Slots

Slots can be passed to an island component if declared.

Every slot is interactive since the parent component is the one providing it.

Some slots are reserved to `NuxtIsland` for special cases.

- `#fallback`: Specify the content to be rendered before the island loads (if the component is lazy) or if `NuxtIsland` fails to fetch the component.

## Ref

- `refresh()`
  - **type**: `() => Promise<void>`
  - **description**: force refetch the server component by refetching it.
