docs/1.getting-started/7.state-management.md, before:

---
title: 'State Management'
description: Nuxt provides powerful state management libraries and the useState composable to create a reactive and SSR-friendly shared state.
navigation.icon: i-ph-database-duotone
---

Nuxt provides the [`useState`](/docs/api/composables/use-state) composable to create a reactive and SSR-friendly shared state across components.

[`useState`](/docs/api/composables/use-state) is an SSR-friendly [`ref`](https://vuejs.org/api/reactivity-core.html#ref) replacement. Its value will be preserved after server-side rendering (during client-side hydration) and shared across all components using a unique key.

::important
Because the data inside [`useState`](/docs/api/composables/use-state) will be serialized to JSON, it is important that it does not contain anything that cannot be serialized, such as classes, functions or symbols.
::

::read-more{to="/docs/api/composables/use-state"}
Read more about `useState` composable.
::

## Best Practices

::warning
Never define `const state = ref()` outside of `<script setup>` or `setup()` function.<br>
Such state will be shared across all users visiting your website and can lead to memory leaks!
::

::tip{icon="i-ph-check-circle-duotone"}
Instead use `const useX = () => useState('x')`
::

## Examples

### Basic Usage

In this example, we use a component-local counter state. Any other component that uses `useState('counter')` shares the same reactive state.

```vue twoslash [app.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const counter = useState('counter', () => Math.round(Math.random() * 1000))
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    Counter: {{ counter }}
    <button @click="counter++">
      +
    </button>
    <button @click="counter--">
      -
    </button>
  </div>
</template>
```

:link-example{to="/docs/examples/features/state-management"}

::note
To globally invalidate cached state, see [`clearNuxtState`](/docs/api/utils/clear-nuxt-state) util.
::

### Initializing State

Most of the time, you will want to initialize your state with data that resolves asynchronously. You can use the [`app.vue`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/app) component with the [`callOnce`](/docs/api/utils/call-once) util to do so.

```vue twoslash [app.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const websiteConfig = useState('config')

await callOnce(async () => {
  websiteConfig.value = await $fetch('https://my-cms.com/api/website-config')
})
</script>
```

::tip
This is similar to the [`nuxtServerInit` action](https://v2.nuxt.com/docs/directory-structure/store/#the-nuxtserverinit-action) in Nuxt 2, which allows filling the initial state of your store server-side before rendering the page.
::

:read-more{to="/docs/api/utils/call-once"}

### Usage with Pinia

In this example, we leverage the [Pinia module](/modules/pinia) to create a global store and use it across the app.

::important
Make sure to install the Pinia module with `npx nuxi@latest module add pinia` or follow the [module's installation steps](https://pinia.vuejs.org/ssr/nuxt.html#Installation).
::

::code-group
```ts [stores/website.ts]
export const useWebsiteStore = defineStore('websiteStore', {
  state: () => ({
    name: '',
    description: ''
  }),
  actions: {
    async fetch() {
      const infos = await $fetch('https://api.nuxt.com/modules/pinia')

      this.name = infos.name
      this.description = infos.description
    }
  }
})
```
```vue [app.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const website = useWebsiteStore()

await callOnce(website.fetch)
</script>

<template>
  <main>
    <h1>{{ website.name }}</h1>
    <p>{{ website.description }}</p>
  </main>
</template>
```
::

## Advanced Usage

::code-group
```ts [composables/locale.ts]
import type { Ref } from 'vue'

export const useLocale = () => {
  return useState<string>('locale', () => useDefaultLocale().value)
}

export const useDefaultLocale = (fallback = 'en-US') => {
  const locale = ref(fallback)
  if (import.meta.server) {
    const reqLocale = useRequestHeaders()['accept-language']?.split(',')[0]
    if (reqLocale) {
      locale.value = reqLocale
    }
  } else if (import.meta.client) {
    const navLang = navigator.language
    if (navLang) {
      locale.value = navLang
    }
  }
  return locale
}

export const useLocales = () => {
  const locale = useLocale()
  const locales = ref([
    'en-US',
    'en-GB',
    ...
    'ja-JP-u-ca-japanese'
  ])
  if (!locales.value.includes(locale.value)) {
    locales.value.unshift(locale.value)
  }
  return locales
}

export const useLocaleDate = (date: Ref<Date> | Date, locale = useLocale()) => {
  return computed(() => new Intl.DateTimeFormat(locale.value, { dateStyle: 'full' }).format(unref(date)))
}
```

```vue [app.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const locales = useLocales()
const locale = useLocale()
const date = useLocaleDate(new Date('2016-10-26'))
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Nuxt birthday</h1>
    <p>{{ date }}</p>
    <label for="locale-chooser">Preview a different locale</label>
    <select id="locale-chooser" v-model="locale">
      <option v-for="locale of locales" :key="locale" :value="locale">
        {{ locale }}
      </option>
    </select>
  </div>
</template>
```
::

:link-example{to="/docs/examples/advanced/locale"}

## Shared State

By using [auto-imported composables](/docs/guide/directory-structure/composables) we can define global type-safe states and import them across the app.

```ts twoslash [composables/states.ts]
export const useColor = () => useState<string>('color', () => 'pink')
```

```vue [app.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
// ---cut-start---
const useColor = () => useState<string>('color', () => 'pink')
// ---cut-end---
const color = useColor() // Same as useState('color')
</script>

<template>
  <p>Current color: {{ color }}</p>
</template>
```

## Using third-party libraries

Nuxt **used to rely** on the Vuex library to provide global state management. If you are migrating from Nuxt 2, please head to [the migration guide](/docs/migration/configuration#vuex).

Nuxt is not opinionated about state management, so feel free to choose the right solution for your needs. There are multiple integrations with the most popular state management libraries, including:

- [Pinia](/modules/pinia) - the official Vue recommendation
- [Harlem](/modules/harlem) - immutable global state management
- [XState](/modules/xstate) - state machine approach with tools for visualizing and testing your state logic

Commit message:

docs: add video links for more context (#27174)

docs/1.getting-started/7.state-management.md, after:

---
title: 'State Management'
description: Nuxt provides powerful state management libraries and the useState composable to create a reactive and SSR-friendly shared state.
navigation.icon: i-ph-database-duotone
---

Nuxt provides the [`useState`](/docs/api/composables/use-state) composable to create a reactive and SSR-friendly shared state across components.

[`useState`](/docs/api/composables/use-state) is an SSR-friendly [`ref`](https://vuejs.org/api/reactivity-core.html#ref) replacement. Its value will be preserved after server-side rendering (during client-side hydration) and shared across all components using a unique key.

::tip{icon="i-ph-video-duotone" to="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mv0WcBABcIk" target="_blank"}
Watch a video from Alexander Lichter about why and when to use `useState()`.
::

::important
Because the data inside [`useState`](/docs/api/composables/use-state) will be serialized to JSON, it is important that it does not contain anything that cannot be serialized, such as classes, functions or symbols.
::

::read-more{to="/docs/api/composables/use-state"}
Read more about `useState` composable.
::

## Best Practices

::warning
Never define `const state = ref()` outside of `<script setup>` or `setup()` function.<br>
Such state will be shared across all users visiting your website and can lead to memory leaks!
::

::tip{icon="i-ph-check-circle-duotone"}
Instead use `const useX = () => useState('x')`
::

## Examples

### Basic Usage

In this example, we use a component-local counter state. Any other component that uses `useState('counter')` shares the same reactive state.

```vue twoslash [app.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const counter = useState('counter', () => Math.round(Math.random() * 1000))
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    Counter: {{ counter }}
    <button @click="counter++">
      +
    </button>
    <button @click="counter--">
      -
    </button>
  </div>
</template>
```

:link-example{to="/docs/examples/features/state-management"}

::note
To globally invalidate cached state, see [`clearNuxtState`](/docs/api/utils/clear-nuxt-state) util.
::

### Initializing State

Most of the time, you will want to initialize your state with data that resolves asynchronously. You can use the [`app.vue`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/app) component with the [`callOnce`](/docs/api/utils/call-once) util to do so.

```vue twoslash [app.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const websiteConfig = useState('config')

await callOnce(async () => {
  websiteConfig.value = await $fetch('https://my-cms.com/api/website-config')
})
</script>
```

::tip
This is similar to the [`nuxtServerInit` action](https://v2.nuxt.com/docs/directory-structure/store/#the-nuxtserverinit-action) in Nuxt 2, which allows filling the initial state of your store server-side before rendering the page.
::

:read-more{to="/docs/api/utils/call-once"}

### Usage with Pinia

In this example, we leverage the [Pinia module](/modules/pinia) to create a global store and use it across the app.

::important
Make sure to install the Pinia module with `npx nuxi@latest module add pinia` or follow the [module's installation steps](https://pinia.vuejs.org/ssr/nuxt.html#Installation).
::

::code-group
```ts [stores/website.ts]
export const useWebsiteStore = defineStore('websiteStore', {
  state: () => ({
    name: '',
    description: ''
  }),
  actions: {
    async fetch() {
      const infos = await $fetch('https://api.nuxt.com/modules/pinia')

      this.name = infos.name
      this.description = infos.description
    }
  }
})
```
```vue [app.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const website = useWebsiteStore()

await callOnce(website.fetch)
</script>

<template>
  <main>
    <h1>{{ website.name }}</h1>
    <p>{{ website.description }}</p>
  </main>
</template>
```
::

## Advanced Usage

::code-group
```ts [composables/locale.ts]
import type { Ref } from 'vue'

export const useLocale = () => {
  return useState<string>('locale', () => useDefaultLocale().value)
}

export const useDefaultLocale = (fallback = 'en-US') => {
  const locale = ref(fallback)
  if (import.meta.server) {
    const reqLocale = useRequestHeaders()['accept-language']?.split(',')[0]
    if (reqLocale) {
      locale.value = reqLocale
    }
  } else if (import.meta.client) {
    const navLang = navigator.language
    if (navLang) {
      locale.value = navLang
    }
  }
  return locale
}

export const useLocales = () => {
  const locale = useLocale()
  const locales = ref([
    'en-US',
    'en-GB',
    ...
    'ja-JP-u-ca-japanese'
  ])
  if (!locales.value.includes(locale.value)) {
    locales.value.unshift(locale.value)
  }
  return locales
}

export const useLocaleDate = (date: Ref<Date> | Date, locale = useLocale()) => {
  return computed(() => new Intl.DateTimeFormat(locale.value, { dateStyle: 'full' }).format(unref(date)))
}
```

```vue [app.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const locales = useLocales()
const locale = useLocale()
const date = useLocaleDate(new Date('2016-10-26'))
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <h1>Nuxt birthday</h1>
    <p>{{ date }}</p>
    <label for="locale-chooser">Preview a different locale</label>
    <select id="locale-chooser" v-model="locale">
      <option v-for="locale of locales" :key="locale" :value="locale">
        {{ locale }}
      </option>
    </select>
  </div>
</template>
```
::

:link-example{to="/docs/examples/advanced/locale"}

## Shared State

By using [auto-imported composables](/docs/guide/directory-structure/composables) we can define global type-safe states and import them across the app.

```ts twoslash [composables/states.ts]
export const useColor = () => useState<string>('color', () => 'pink')
```

```vue [app.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
// ---cut-start---
const useColor = () => useState<string>('color', () => 'pink')
// ---cut-end---
const color = useColor() // Same as useState('color')
</script>

<template>
  <p>Current color: {{ color }}</p>
</template>
```

::tip{icon="i-ph-video-duotone" to="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dZSNW07sO-A" target="_blank"}
Watch a video from Daniel Roe on how to deal with global state and SSR in Nuxt.
::

## Using third-party libraries

Nuxt **used to rely** on the Vuex library to provide global state management. If you are migrating from Nuxt 2, please head to [the migration guide](/docs/migration/configuration#vuex).

Nuxt is not opinionated about state management, so feel free to choose the right solution for your needs. There are multiple integrations with the most popular state management libraries, including:

- [Pinia](/modules/pinia) - the official Vue recommendation
- [Harlem](/modules/harlem) - immutable global state management
- [XState](/modules/xstate) - state machine approach with tools for visualizing and testing your state logic
