docs/2.guide/3.going-further/1.features.md, before:

---
title: "Features"
description: "Enable or disable optional Nuxt features to unlock new possibilities."
---

Some features of Nuxt are available on an opt-in basis, or can be disabled based on your needs.

## `features`

### inlineStyles

Inlines styles when rendering HTML. This is currently available only when using Vite.

You can also pass a function that receives the path of a Vue component and returns a boolean indicating whether to inline the styles for that component.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  features: {
    inlineStyles: true // or a function to determine inlining
  }
})
```

### noScripts

Disables rendering of Nuxt scripts and JS resource hints. Can also be configured granularly within `routeRules`.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  features: {
    noScripts: true
  }
})
```

## `future`

There is also a `future` namespace for early opting-in to new features that will become default in a future (possibly major) version of the framework.

### compatibilityVersion

::important
This configuration option is available in Nuxt v3.12+.
::

This enables early access to Nuxt features or flags.

Setting `compatibilityVersion` to `4` changes defaults throughout your
Nuxt configuration to opt-in to Nuxt v4 behaviour, but you can granularly re-enable Nuxt v3 behaviour
when testing (see example). Please file issues if so, so that we can
address in Nuxt or in the ecosystem.

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  future: {
    compatibilityVersion: 4,
  },
  // To re-enable _all_ Nuxt v3 behaviour, set the following options:
  srcDir: '.',
  dir: {
    app: 'app'
  },
  experimental: {
    compileTemplate: true,
    templateUtils: true,
    relativeWatchPaths: true,
    defaults: {
      useAsyncData: {
        deep: true
      }
    }
  }
})
```

### typescriptBundlerResolution

This enables 'Bundler' module resolution mode for TypeScript, which is the recommended setting
for frameworks like Nuxt and [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/guide/performance.html#reduce-resolve-operations).

It improves type support when using modern libraries with `exports`.

See [the original TypeScript pull request](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/pull/51669).

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  future: {
    typescriptBundlerResolution: true
  }
})
```

Commit message:

docs: mention nightly release channel for unreleased features

docs/2.guide/3.going-further/1.features.md, after:

---
title: "Features"
description: "Enable or disable optional Nuxt features to unlock new possibilities."
---

Some features of Nuxt are available on an opt-in basis, or can be disabled based on your needs.

## `features`

### inlineStyles

Inlines styles when rendering HTML. This is currently available only when using Vite.

You can also pass a function that receives the path of a Vue component and returns a boolean indicating whether to inline the styles for that component.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  features: {
    inlineStyles: true // or a function to determine inlining
  }
})
```

### noScripts

Disables rendering of Nuxt scripts and JS resource hints. Can also be configured granularly within `routeRules`.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  features: {
    noScripts: true
  }
})
```

## `future`

There is also a `future` namespace for early opting-in to new features that will become default in a future (possibly major) version of the framework.

### compatibilityVersion

::important
This configuration option is available in Nuxt v3.12+ or in [the nightly release channel](/docs/guide/going-further/nightly-release-channel).
::

This enables early access to Nuxt features or flags.

Setting `compatibilityVersion` to `4` changes defaults throughout your
Nuxt configuration to opt-in to Nuxt v4 behaviour, but you can granularly re-enable Nuxt v3 behaviour
when testing (see example). Please file issues if so, so that we can
address in Nuxt or in the ecosystem.

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  future: {
    compatibilityVersion: 4,
  },
  // To re-enable _all_ Nuxt v3 behaviour, set the following options:
  srcDir: '.',
  dir: {
    app: 'app'
  },
  experimental: {
    compileTemplate: true,
    templateUtils: true,
    relativeWatchPaths: true,
    defaults: {
      useAsyncData: {
        deep: true
      }
    }
  }
})
```

### typescriptBundlerResolution

This enables 'Bundler' module resolution mode for TypeScript, which is the recommended setting
for frameworks like Nuxt and [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/guide/performance.html#reduce-resolve-operations).

It improves type support when using modern libraries with `exports`.

See [the original TypeScript pull request](https://github.com/microsoft/TypeScript/pull/51669).

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  future: {
    typescriptBundlerResolution: true
  }
})
```
