docs/2.guide/3.going-further/9.debugging.md, before:

---
title: "Debugging"
description: "In Nuxt 3, you can get started with debugging your application directly in the browser as well as in your IDE."
---

## Sourcemaps

Sourcemaps are enabled for your server build by default, and for the client build in dev mode, but you can enable them more specifically in your configuration.

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  // or sourcemap: true
  sourcemap: {
    server: true,
    client: true
  }
})
```

## Debugging in Your IDE

It is possible to debug your Nuxt app in your IDE while you are developing it.

### Example VS Code Debug Configuration

You may need to update the config below with a path to your web browser. For more information, visit the [VS Code documentation about debug configuration](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=830387).

```json5
{
  // Use IntelliSense to learn about possible attributes.
  // Hover to view descriptions of existing attributes.
  "version": "0.2.0",
  "configurations": [
    {
      "type": "chrome",
      "request": "launch",
      "name": "client: chrome",
      "url": "http://localhost:3000",
      "webRoot": "${workspaceFolder}"
    },
    {
      "type": "node",
      "request": "launch",
      "name": "server: nuxt",
      "outputCapture": "std",
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/node_modules/nuxi/bin/nuxi.mjs",
      "args": [
        "dev"
      ],
    }
  ],
  "compounds": [
    {
      "name": "fullstack: nuxt",
      "configurations": [
        "server: nuxt",
        "client: chrome"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

If you prefer your usual browser extensions, add this to the _chrome_ configuration above:

```json5
"userDataDir": false,
```

### Example JetBrains IDEs Debug Configuration

You can also debug your Nuxt app in JetBrains IDEs such as IntelliJ IDEA, WebStorm, or PhpStorm.

1. Create a new file in your project root directory and name it `nuxt.run.xml`.

2. Open the `nuxt.run.xml` file and paste the following debug configuration:

```html
<component name="ProjectRunConfigurationManager">
  <configuration default="false" name="client: chrome" type="JavascriptDebugType" uri="http://localhost:3000" useFirstLineBreakpoints="true">
    <method v="2" />
  </configuration>

  <configuration default="false" name="server: nuxt" type="NodeJSConfigurationType" application-parameters="dev" path-to-js-file="$PROJECT_DIR$/node_modules/nuxi/bin/nuxi.mjs" working-dir="$PROJECT_DIR$">
    <method v="2" />
  </configuration>

  <configuration default="false" name="fullstack: nuxt" type="CompoundRunConfigurationType">
    <toRun name="client: chrome" type="JavascriptDebugType" />
    <toRun name="server: nuxt" type="NodeJSConfigurationType" />
    <method v="2" />
  </configuration>
</component>
```

### Other IDEs

If you have another IDE and would like to contribute sample configuration, feel free to [open a PR](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/edit/main/docs/2.guide/3.going-further/9.debugging.md)!

Commit message:

docs: add how to debug nuxt with node inspector (#25731)

docs/2.guide/3.going-further/9.debugging.md, after:

---
title: "Debugging"
description: "In Nuxt 3, you can get started with debugging your application directly in the browser as well as in your IDE."
---

## Sourcemaps

Sourcemaps are enabled for your server build by default, and for the client build in dev mode, but you can enable them more specifically in your configuration.

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  // or sourcemap: true
  sourcemap: {
    server: true,
    client: true
  }
})
```

## Debugging with Node Inspector

You can use [Node inspector](https://nodejs.org/en/learn/getting-started/debugging) to debug Nuxt server-side.

```bash
nuxi dev --inspect
```
This will start Nuxt in `dev` mode with debugger active. If everything is working correctly a Node.js icon will appear on your Chrome DevTools and you can attach to the debugger.

::callout{color="amber" icon="i-ph-warning-duotone"}
Note that the Node.js and Chrome processes need to be run on the same platform. This doesn't work inside of Docker.
::

## Debugging in Your IDE

It is possible to debug your Nuxt app in your IDE while you are developing it.

### Example VS Code Debug Configuration

You may need to update the config below with a path to your web browser. For more information, visit the [VS Code documentation about debug configuration](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=830387).

```json5
{
  // Use IntelliSense to learn about possible attributes.
  // Hover to view descriptions of existing attributes.
  "version": "0.2.0",
  "configurations": [
    {
      "type": "chrome",
      "request": "launch",
      "name": "client: chrome",
      "url": "http://localhost:3000",
      "webRoot": "${workspaceFolder}"
    },
    {
      "type": "node",
      "request": "launch",
      "name": "server: nuxt",
      "outputCapture": "std",
      "program": "${workspaceFolder}/node_modules/nuxi/bin/nuxi.mjs",
      "args": [
        "dev"
      ],
    }
  ],
  "compounds": [
    {
      "name": "fullstack: nuxt",
      "configurations": [
        "server: nuxt",
        "client: chrome"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

If you prefer your usual browser extensions, add this to the _chrome_ configuration above:

```json5
"userDataDir": false,
```

### Example JetBrains IDEs Debug Configuration

You can also debug your Nuxt app in JetBrains IDEs such as IntelliJ IDEA, WebStorm, or PhpStorm.

1. Create a new file in your project root directory and name it `nuxt.run.xml`.

2. Open the `nuxt.run.xml` file and paste the following debug configuration:

```html
<component name="ProjectRunConfigurationManager">
  <configuration default="false" name="client: chrome" type="JavascriptDebugType" uri="http://localhost:3000" useFirstLineBreakpoints="true">
    <method v="2" />
  </configuration>

  <configuration default="false" name="server: nuxt" type="NodeJSConfigurationType" application-parameters="dev" path-to-js-file="$PROJECT_DIR$/node_modules/nuxi/bin/nuxi.mjs" working-dir="$PROJECT_DIR$">
    <method v="2" />
  </configuration>

  <configuration default="false" name="fullstack: nuxt" type="CompoundRunConfigurationType">
    <toRun name="client: chrome" type="JavascriptDebugType" />
    <toRun name="server: nuxt" type="NodeJSConfigurationType" />
    <method v="2" />
  </configuration>
</component>
```

### Other IDEs

If you have another IDE and would like to contribute sample configuration, feel free to [open a PR](https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/edit/main/docs/2.guide/3.going-further/9.debugging.md)!
