docs/3.api/2.composables/use-lazy-fetch.md, before:

---
title: 'useLazyFetch'
description: This wrapper around useFetch triggers navigation immediately.
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/composables/fetch.ts
    size: xs
---

## Description

By default, [`useFetch`](/docs/api/composables/use-fetch) blocks navigation until its async handler is resolved. `useLazyFetch` provides a wrapper around [`useFetch`](/docs/api/composables/use-fetch) that triggers navigation before the handler is resolved by setting the `lazy` option to `true`.

::note
`useLazyFetch` has the same signature as [`useFetch`](/docs/api/composables/use-fetch).
::

:read-more{to="/docs/api/composables/use-fetch"}

## Example

```vue [pages/index.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
/* Navigation will occur before fetching is complete.
 * Handle 'pending' and 'error' states directly within your component's template
 */
const { status, data: posts } = await useLazyFetch('/api/posts')
watch(posts, (newPosts) => {
  // Because posts might start out null, you won't have access
  // to its contents immediately, but you can watch it.
})
</script>

<template>
  <div v-if="status === 'pending'">
    Loading ...
  </div>
  <div v-else>
    <div v-for="post in posts">
      <!-- do something -->
    </div>
  </div>
</template>
```

::note
`useLazyFetch` is a reserved function name transformed by the compiler, so you should not name your own function `useLazyFetch`.
::

:read-more{to="/docs/getting-started/data-fetching"}

Commit message:

docs: add note about awaiting `useLazyFetch` (#30171)

docs/3.api/2.composables/use-lazy-fetch.md, after:

---
title: 'useLazyFetch'
description: This wrapper around useFetch triggers navigation immediately.
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/composables/fetch.ts
    size: xs
---

## Description

By default, [`useFetch`](/docs/api/composables/use-fetch) blocks navigation until its async handler is resolved. `useLazyFetch` provides a wrapper around [`useFetch`](/docs/api/composables/use-fetch) that triggers navigation before the handler is resolved by setting the `lazy` option to `true`.

::note
`useLazyFetch` has the same signature as [`useFetch`](/docs/api/composables/use-fetch).
::

::note
Awaiting `useLazyFetch` in this mode only ensures the call is initialized. On client-side navigation, data may not be immediately available, and you should make sure to handle the pending state in your app.
::

:read-more{to="/docs/api/composables/use-fetch"}

## Example

```vue [pages/index.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
/* Navigation will occur before fetching is complete.
 * Handle 'pending' and 'error' states directly within your component's template
 */
const { status, data: posts } = await useLazyFetch('/api/posts')
watch(posts, (newPosts) => {
  // Because posts might start out null, you won't have access
  // to its contents immediately, but you can watch it.
})
</script>

<template>
  <div v-if="status === 'pending'">
    Loading ...
  </div>
  <div v-else>
    <div v-for="post in posts">
      <!-- do something -->
    </div>
  </div>
</template>
```

::note
`useLazyFetch` is a reserved function name transformed by the compiler, so you should not name your own function `useLazyFetch`.
::

:read-more{to="/docs/getting-started/data-fetching"}
