docs/3.api/2.composables/use-loading-indicator.md, before:

---
title: 'useLoadingIndicator'
description: This composable gives you access to the loading state of the app page.
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/composables/loading-indicator.ts
    size: xs
---

## Description

A composable which returns the loading state of the page. Used by [`<NuxtLoadingIndicator>`](/docs/api/components/nuxt-loading-indicator) and controllable.
It hooks into [`page:loading:start`](/docs/api/advanced/hooks#app-hooks-runtime) and [`page:loading:end`](/docs/api/advanced/hooks#app-hooks-runtime) to change its state.

## Parameters

- `duration`: Duration of the loading bar, in milliseconds (default `2000`).
- `throttle`: Throttle the appearing and hiding, in milliseconds (default `200`).
- `estimatedProgress`: By default Nuxt will back off as it approaches 100%. You can provide a custom function to customize the progress estimation, which is a function that receives the duration of the loading bar (above) and the elapsed time. It should return a value between 0 and 100.

## Properties

### `isLoading`

- **type**: `Ref<boolean>`
- **description**: The loading state

### `progress`

- **type**: `Ref<number>`
- **description**: The progress state. From `0` to `100`.

## Methods

### `start()`

Set `isLoading` to true and start to increase the `progress` value.

### `finish()`

Set the `progress` value to `100`, stop all timers and intervals then reset the loading state `500` ms later. `finish` accepts a `{ force: true }` option to skip the interval before the state is reset.

### `clear()`

Used by `finish()`. Clear all timers and intervals used by the composable.

## Example

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
  const { progress, isLoading, start, finish, clear } = useLoadingIndicator({
    duration: 2000,
    throttle: 200,
    // This is how progress is calculated by default
    estimatedProgress: (duration, elapsed) => (2 / Math.PI * 100) * Math.atan(elapsed / duration * 100 / 50)
  })
</script>
```

Commit message:

feat(nuxt): allow displaying error state in loading indicator (#27176)

docs/3.api/2.composables/use-loading-indicator.md, after:

---
title: 'useLoadingIndicator'
description: This composable gives you access to the loading state of the app page.
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/composables/loading-indicator.ts
    size: xs
---

## Description

A composable which returns the loading state of the page. Used by [`<NuxtLoadingIndicator>`](/docs/api/components/nuxt-loading-indicator) and controllable.
It hooks into [`page:loading:start`](/docs/api/advanced/hooks#app-hooks-runtime) and [`page:loading:end`](/docs/api/advanced/hooks#app-hooks-runtime) to change its state.

## Parameters

- `duration`: Duration of the loading bar, in milliseconds (default `2000`).
- `throttle`: Throttle the appearing and hiding, in milliseconds (default `200`).
- `estimatedProgress`: By default Nuxt will back off as it approaches 100%. You can provide a custom function to customize the progress estimation, which is a function that receives the duration of the loading bar (above) and the elapsed time. It should return a value between 0 and 100.

## Properties

### `isLoading`

- **type**: `Ref<boolean>`
- **description**: The loading state

### `error`

- **type**: `Ref<boolean>`
- **description**: The error state

### `progress`

- **type**: `Ref<number>`
- **description**: The progress state. From `0` to `100`.

## Methods

### `start()`

Set `isLoading` to true and start to increase the `progress` value.

### `finish()`

Set the `progress` value to `100`, stop all timers and intervals then reset the loading state `500` ms later. `finish` accepts a `{ force: true }` option to skip the interval before the state is reset, and `{ error: true }` to change the loading bar color and set the error property to true.

### `clear()`

Used by `finish()`. Clear all timers and intervals used by the composable.

## Example

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
  const { progress, isLoading, start, finish, clear } = useLoadingIndicator({
    duration: 2000,
    throttle: 200,
    // This is how progress is calculated by default
    estimatedProgress: (duration, elapsed) => (2 / Math.PI * 100) * Math.atan(elapsed / duration * 100 / 50)
  })
</script>
```
