docs/3.api/2.composables/use-route-announcer.md, before:

---
title: 'useRouteAnnouncer'
description: This composable observes the page title changes and updates the announcer message accordingly.
navigation:
  badge: New
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/composables/route-announcer.ts
    size: xs
---

::important
This composable will be available in Nuxt v3.12.
::

## Description

A composable which observes the page title changes and updates the announcer message accordingly. Used by [`<NuxtRouteAnnouncer>`](/docs/api/components/nuxt-route-announcer) and controllable.
It hooks into Unhead's [`dom:rendered`](https://unhead.unjs.io/api/core/hooks#dom-hooks) to read the page's title and set it as the announcer message.

## Parameters

- `politeness`: Sets the urgency for screen reader announcements: `off` (disable the announcement), `polite` (waits for silence), or `assertive` (interrupts immediately).  (default `polite`).

## Properties

### `message`

- **type**: `Ref<string>`
- **description**: The message to announce

### `politeness`

- **type**: `Ref<string>`
- **description**: Screen reader announcement urgency level `off`, `polite`, or `assertive`

## Methods

### `set(message, politeness = "polite")`

Sets the message to announce with its urgency level.

### `polite(message)`

Sets the message with `politeness = "polite"`

### `assertive(message)`

Sets the message with `politeness = "assertive"`

## Example

```ts
<script setup lang="ts">
  const { message, politeness, set, polite, assertive } = useRouteAnnouncer({
    politeness: 'assertive'
  })
</script>
```

Commit message:

docs: mention nightly release channel for unreleased features

docs/3.api/2.composables/use-route-announcer.md, after:

---
title: 'useRouteAnnouncer'
description: This composable observes the page title changes and updates the announcer message accordingly.
navigation:
  badge: New
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/composables/route-announcer.ts
    size: xs
---

::important
This composable will be available in Nuxt v3.12 or in [the nightly release channel](/docs/guide/going-further/nightly-release-channel).
::

## Description

A composable which observes the page title changes and updates the announcer message accordingly. Used by [`<NuxtRouteAnnouncer>`](/docs/api/components/nuxt-route-announcer) and controllable.
It hooks into Unhead's [`dom:rendered`](https://unhead.unjs.io/api/core/hooks#dom-hooks) to read the page's title and set it as the announcer message.

## Parameters

- `politeness`: Sets the urgency for screen reader announcements: `off` (disable the announcement), `polite` (waits for silence), or `assertive` (interrupts immediately).  (default `polite`).

## Properties

### `message`

- **type**: `Ref<string>`
- **description**: The message to announce

### `politeness`

- **type**: `Ref<string>`
- **description**: Screen reader announcement urgency level `off`, `polite`, or `assertive`

## Methods

### `set(message, politeness = "polite")`

Sets the message to announce with its urgency level.

### `polite(message)`

Sets the message with `politeness = "polite"`

### `assertive(message)`

Sets the message with `politeness = "assertive"`

## Example

```ts
<script setup lang="ts">
  const { message, politeness, set, polite, assertive } = useRouteAnnouncer({
    politeness: 'assertive'
  })
</script>
```
