docs/3.api/2.composables/use-route.md, before:

---
title: "useRoute"
description: The useRoute composable returns the current route.
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/composables/router.ts
    size: xs
---

::callout
Within the template of a Vue component, you can access the route using `$route`.
::

## Example

In the following example, we call an API via [`useFetch`](/docs/api/composables/use-fetch) using a dynamic page parameter - `slug` - as part of the URL.

```html [~/pages/[slug\\].vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const route = useRoute()
const { data: mountain } = await useFetch(`/api/mountains/${route.params.slug}`)
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <h1>{{ mountain.title }}</h1>
    <p>{{ mountain.description }}</p>
  </div>
</template>
```

If you need to access the route query parameters (for example `example` in the path `/test?example=true`), then you can use `useRoute().query` instead of `useRoute().params`.

## API

Apart from dynamic parameters and query parameters, `useRoute()` also provides the following computed references related to the current route:

- `fullPath`: encoded URL associated with the current route that contains path, query and hash
- `hash`: decoded hash section of the URL that starts with a #
- `matched`: array of normalized matched routes with current route location
- `meta`: custom data attached to the record
- `name`: unique name for the route record
- `path`: encoded pathname section of the URL
- `redirectedFrom`: route location that was attempted to access before ending up on the current route location

:read-more{icon="i-simple-icons-vuedotjs" to="https://router.vuejs.org/api/interfaces/RouteLocationNormalizedLoaded.html"}

Commit message:

docs: warn about hydration issue with URL fragment (#24961)

docs/3.api/2.composables/use-route.md, after:

---
title: "useRoute"
description: The useRoute composable returns the current route.
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/composables/router.ts
    size: xs
---

::callout
Within the template of a Vue component, you can access the route using `$route`.
::

## Example

In the following example, we call an API via [`useFetch`](/docs/api/composables/use-fetch) using a dynamic page parameter - `slug` - as part of the URL.

```html [~/pages/[slug\\].vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const route = useRoute()
const { data: mountain } = await useFetch(`/api/mountains/${route.params.slug}`)
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <h1>{{ mountain.title }}</h1>
    <p>{{ mountain.description }}</p>
  </div>
</template>
```

If you need to access the route query parameters (for example `example` in the path `/test?example=true`), then you can use `useRoute().query` instead of `useRoute().params`.

## API

Apart from dynamic parameters and query parameters, `useRoute()` also provides the following computed references related to the current route:

- `fullPath`: encoded URL associated with the current route that contains path, query and hash
- `hash`: decoded hash section of the URL that starts with a #
- `matched`: array of normalized matched routes with current route location
- `meta`: custom data attached to the record
- `name`: unique name for the route record
- `path`: encoded pathname section of the URL
- `redirectedFrom`: route location that was attempted to access before ending up on the current route location

::callout
Browsers don't send [URL fragments](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-url-fragment) (for example `#foo`) when making requests. So using `route.fullPath` in your template can trigger hydration issues because this will include the fragment on client but not the server.
::

:read-more{icon="i-simple-icons-vuedotjs" to="https://router.vuejs.org/api/interfaces/RouteLocationNormalizedLoaded.html"}
