docs/3.api/3.utils/navigate-to.md, before:

---
title: "navigateTo"
description: navigateTo is a helper function that programmatically navigates users.
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/composables/router.ts
    size: xs
---

::note
`navigateTo` is available on both server side and client side.
::

## Usage

`navigateTo` is available on both server side and client side. It can be used within the [Nuxt context](/docs/guide/going-further/nuxt-app#the-nuxt-context), or directly, to perform page navigation.

### Within a Vue Component

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
// passing 'to' as a string
await navigateTo('/search')

// ... or as a route object
await navigateTo({ path: '/search' })

// ... or as a route object with query parameters
await navigateTo({
  path: '/search',
  query: {
    page: 1,
    sort: 'asc'
  }
})
</script>
```

### Within Route Middleware

```ts
export default defineNuxtRouteMiddleware((to, from) => {
  if (to.path !== '/search') {
    // setting the redirect code to '301 Moved Permanently'
    return navigateTo('/search', { redirectCode: 301 })
  }
})
```

:read-more{to="/docs/guide/directory-structure/middleware"}

### External URL

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
// will throw an error;
// navigating to an external URL is not allowed by default
await navigateTo('https://nuxt.com')

// will redirect successfully with the 'external' parameter set to 'true'
await navigateTo('https://nuxt.com', {
  external: true
})
</script>
```

### Using open()

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
// will open 'https://nuxt.com' in a new tab
await navigateTo('https://nuxt.com', {
  open: {
    target: '_blank',
    windowFeatures: {
      width: 500,
      height: 500
    }
  }
})
</script>
```

## Type

```ts
navigateTo(to: RouteLocationRaw | undefined | null, options?: NavigateToOptions) => Promise<void | NavigationFailure> | RouteLocationRaw

interface NavigateToOptions {
  replace?: boolean
  redirectCode?: number
  external?: boolean
  open?: OpenOptions
}
```

::warning
Make sure to always use `await` or `return` on result of `navigateTo` when calling it.
::

## Parameters

### `to`

**Type**: [`RouteLocationRaw`](https://router.vuejs.org/api/interfaces/RouteLocation.html) | `undefined` | `null`

**Default**: `'/'`

`to` can be a plain string or a route object to redirect to. When passed as `undefined` or `null`, it will default to `'/'`.

### `options` (optional)

**Type**: `NavigateToOptions`

An object accepting the following properties:

- `replace` (optional)

  **Type**: `boolean`

  **Default**: `false`

  By default, `navigateTo` pushes the given route into the Vue Router's instance on the client side.

  This behavior can be changed by setting `replace` to `true`, to indicate that given route should be replaced.

- `redirectCode` (optional)

  **Type**: `number`

  **Default**: `302`

  `navigateTo` redirects to the given path and sets the redirect code to [`302 Found`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/302) by default when the redirection takes place on the server side.

  This default behavior can be modified by providing different `redirectCode`. Commonly, [`301 Moved Permanently`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/301) can be used for permanent redirections.

- `external` (optional)

  **Type**: `boolean`

  **Default**: `false`

  Allows navigating to an external URL when set to `true`. Otherwise, `navigateTo` will throw an error, as external navigation is not allowed by default.

- `open` (optional)

  **Type**: `OpenOptions`

  Allows navigating to the URL using the [open()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open) method of the window. This option is only applicable on the client side and will be ignored on the server side.

  An object accepting the following properties:

  - `target`

    **Type**: `string`

    **Default**: `'_blank'`

    A string, without whitespace, specifying the name of the browsing context the resource is being loaded into.

  - `windowFeatures` (optional)

    **Type**: `OpenWindowFeatures`

    An object accepting the following properties:

    - `popup` (optional)

      **Type**: `boolean`

    - `width` or `innerWidth` (optional)

      **Type**: `number`

    - `height` or `innerHeight` (optional)

      **Type**: `number`

    - `left` or `screenX` (optional)

      **Type**: `number`

    - `top` or `screenY` (optional)

      **Type**: `number`

    - `noopener` (optional)

      **Type**: `boolean`

    - `noreferrer` (optional)

      **Type**: `boolean`

    Refer to the [documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open) for more detailed information on the **windowFeatures** properties.

Commit message:

docs: add external parameter behavior navigateTo (#27472)

docs/3.api/3.utils/navigate-to.md, after:

---
title: "navigateTo"
description: navigateTo is a helper function that programmatically navigates users.
links:
  - label: Source
    icon: i-simple-icons-github
    to: https://github.com/nuxt/nuxt/blob/main/packages/nuxt/src/app/composables/router.ts
    size: xs
---

::note
`navigateTo` is available on both server side and client side.
::

## Usage

`navigateTo` is available on both server side and client side. It can be used within the [Nuxt context](/docs/guide/going-further/nuxt-app#the-nuxt-context), or directly, to perform page navigation.

### Within a Vue Component

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
// passing 'to' as a string
await navigateTo('/search')

// ... or as a route object
await navigateTo({ path: '/search' })

// ... or as a route object with query parameters
await navigateTo({
  path: '/search',
  query: {
    page: 1,
    sort: 'asc'
  }
})
</script>
```

### Within Route Middleware

```ts
export default defineNuxtRouteMiddleware((to, from) => {
  if (to.path !== '/search') {
    // setting the redirect code to '301 Moved Permanently'
    return navigateTo('/search', { redirectCode: 301 })
  }
})
```

:read-more{to="/docs/guide/directory-structure/middleware"}

### External URL

The `external` parameter in `navigateTo` influences how navigating to URLs is handled:

- **Without `external: true`**:
  - Internal URLs navigate as expected.
  - External URLs throw an error.

- **With `external: true`**:
  - Internal URLs navigate with a full-page reload.
  - External URLs navigate as expected.

#### Example

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
// will throw an error;
// navigating to an external URL is not allowed by default
await navigateTo('https://nuxt.com')

// will redirect successfully with the 'external' parameter set to 'true'
await navigateTo('https://nuxt.com', {
  external: true
})
</script>
```

### Using open()

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
// will open 'https://nuxt.com' in a new tab
await navigateTo('https://nuxt.com', {
  open: {
    target: '_blank',
    windowFeatures: {
      width: 500,
      height: 500
    }
  }
})
</script>
```

## Type

```ts
navigateTo(to: RouteLocationRaw | undefined | null, options?: NavigateToOptions) => Promise<void | NavigationFailure> | RouteLocationRaw

interface NavigateToOptions {
  replace?: boolean
  redirectCode?: number
  external?: boolean
  open?: OpenOptions
}
```

::warning
Make sure to always use `await` or `return` on result of `navigateTo` when calling it.
::

## Parameters

### `to`

**Type**: [`RouteLocationRaw`](https://router.vuejs.org/api/interfaces/RouteLocation.html) | `undefined` | `null`

**Default**: `'/'`

`to` can be a plain string or a route object to redirect to. When passed as `undefined` or `null`, it will default to `'/'`.

### `options` (optional)

**Type**: `NavigateToOptions`

An object accepting the following properties:

- `replace` (optional)

  **Type**: `boolean`

  **Default**: `false`

  By default, `navigateTo` pushes the given route into the Vue Router's instance on the client side.

  This behavior can be changed by setting `replace` to `true`, to indicate that given route should be replaced.

- `redirectCode` (optional)

  **Type**: `number`

  **Default**: `302`

  `navigateTo` redirects to the given path and sets the redirect code to [`302 Found`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/302) by default when the redirection takes place on the server side.

  This default behavior can be modified by providing different `redirectCode`. Commonly, [`301 Moved Permanently`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/301) can be used for permanent redirections.

- `external` (optional)

  **Type**: `boolean`

  **Default**: `false`

  Allows navigating to an external URL when set to `true`. Otherwise, `navigateTo` will throw an error, as external navigation is not allowed by default.

- `open` (optional)

  **Type**: `OpenOptions`

  Allows navigating to the URL using the [open()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open) method of the window. This option is only applicable on the client side and will be ignored on the server side.

  An object accepting the following properties:

  - `target`

    **Type**: `string`

    **Default**: `'_blank'`

    A string, without whitespace, specifying the name of the browsing context the resource is being loaded into.

  - `windowFeatures` (optional)

    **Type**: `OpenWindowFeatures`

    An object accepting the following properties:

    - `popup` (optional)

      **Type**: `boolean`

    - `width` or `innerWidth` (optional)

      **Type**: `number`

    - `height` or `innerHeight` (optional)

      **Type**: `number`

    - `left` or `screenX` (optional)

      **Type**: `number`

    - `top` or `screenY` (optional)

      **Type**: `number`

    - `noopener` (optional)

      **Type**: `boolean`

    - `noreferrer` (optional)

      **Type**: `boolean`

    Refer to the [documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/open) for more detailed information on the **windowFeatures** properties.
