docs/2.guide/2.directory-structure/1.modules.md, before:

---
title: 'modules'
head.title: 'modules/'
description: Use the modules/ directory to automatically register local modules within your application.
navigation.icon: i-ph-folder-duotone
---

It is a good place to place any local modules you develop while building your application.

The auto-registered files patterns are:
- `modules/*/index.ts`
- `modules/*.ts`

You don't need to add those local modules to your [`nuxt.config.ts`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/nuxt-config) separately.

::code-group

```ts twoslash [modules/hello/index.ts]
// `nuxt/kit` is a helper subpath import you can use when defining local modules
// that means you do not need to add `@nuxt/kit` to your project's dependencies
import { createResolver, defineNuxtModule, addServerHandler } from 'nuxt/kit'

export default defineNuxtModule({
  meta: {
    name: 'hello'
  },
  setup () {
    const { resolve } = createResolver(import.meta.url)

    // Add an API route
    addServerHandler({
      route: '/api/hello',
      handler: resolve('./runtime/api-route')
    })
  }
})
```

```ts twoslash [modules/hello/runtime/api-route.ts]
export default defineEventHandler(() => {
  return { hello: 'world' }
})
```

::

When starting Nuxt, the `hello` module will be registered and the `/api/hello` route will be available.

Local modules are registered in alphabetical order. You can change the order by adding a number to the front of each directory name:

```bash [Directory structure]
modules/
  1.first-module/
    index.ts
  2.second-module.ts
```

:read-more{to="/docs/guide/going-further/modules"}

::tip{icon="i-ph-video-duotone" to="https://vueschool.io/lessons/creating-your-first-module-from-scratch" target="_blank"}
Watch Vue School video about Nuxt private modules.
::

Commit message:

docs: add module execution order (#27178)

docs/2.guide/2.directory-structure/1.modules.md, after:

---
title: 'modules'
head.title: 'modules/'
description: Use the modules/ directory to automatically register local modules within your application.
navigation.icon: i-ph-folder-duotone
---

It is a good place to place any local modules you develop while building your application.

The auto-registered files patterns are:
- `modules/*/index.ts`
- `modules/*.ts`

You don't need to add those local modules to your [`nuxt.config.ts`](/docs/guide/directory-structure/nuxt-config) separately.

::code-group

```ts twoslash [modules/hello/index.ts]
// `nuxt/kit` is a helper subpath import you can use when defining local modules
// that means you do not need to add `@nuxt/kit` to your project's dependencies
import { createResolver, defineNuxtModule, addServerHandler } from 'nuxt/kit'

export default defineNuxtModule({
  meta: {
    name: 'hello'
  },
  setup () {
    const { resolve } = createResolver(import.meta.url)

    // Add an API route
    addServerHandler({
      route: '/api/hello',
      handler: resolve('./runtime/api-route')
    })
  }
})
```

```ts twoslash [modules/hello/runtime/api-route.ts]
export default defineEventHandler(() => {
  return { hello: 'world' }
})
```

::

When starting Nuxt, the `hello` module will be registered and the `/api/hello` route will be available.

Modules are executed in the following sequence:
- First, the modules defined in [`nuxt.config.ts`](/docs/api/nuxt-config#modules-1) are loaded.
- Then, modules found in the `modules/` directory are executed, and they load in alphabetical order.

You can change the order of local module by adding a number to the front of each directory name:

```bash [Directory structure]
modules/
  1.first-module/
    index.ts
  2.second-module.ts
```

:read-more{to="/docs/guide/going-further/modules"}

::tip{icon="i-ph-video-duotone" to="https://vueschool.io/lessons/creating-your-first-module-from-scratch" target="_blank"}
Watch Vue School video about Nuxt private modules.
::
