docs/2.guide/2.directory-structure/3.error.md, before:

---
title: "error.vue"
description: "The error.vue file is the error page in your Nuxt application."
head.title: "error.vue"
navigation.icon: i-ph-file-duotone
---

During the lifespan of your application, some errors may appear unexpectedly at runtime. In such case, we can use the `error.vue` file to override the default error files and display the error nicely.

```vue [error.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const props = defineProps({
  error: Object
})
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <h1>{{ error.statusCode }}</h1>
    <NuxtLink to="/">Go back home</NuxtLink>
  </div>
</template>
```

::callout
Although it is called an 'error page' it's not a route and shouldn't be placed in your `~/pages` directory. For the same reason, you shouldn't use `definePageMeta` within this page.
::

The error page has a single prop - `error` which contains an error for you to handle.

The `error` object provides the following fields:
```ts
{
  url: string
  statusCode: number
  statusMessage: string
  message: string
  description: string
  data: any
}
```

If you have an error with custom fields they will be lost; you should assign them to `data` instead:

```ts
throw createError({
  statusCode: 404,
  statusMessage: 'Page Not Found',
  data: {
    myCustomField: true
  }
})
```

Commit message:

docs: add explanation about layout usage in `error.vue` (#25396)

docs/2.guide/2.directory-structure/3.error.md, after:

---
title: "error.vue"
description: "The error.vue file is the error page in your Nuxt application."
head.title: "error.vue"
navigation.icon: i-ph-file-duotone
---

During the lifespan of your application, some errors may appear unexpectedly at runtime. In such case, we can use the `error.vue` file to override the default error files and display the error nicely.

```vue [error.vue]
<script setup lang="ts">
const props = defineProps({
  error: Object
})
</script>

<template>
  <div>
    <h1>{{ error.statusCode }}</h1>
    <NuxtLink to="/">Go back home</NuxtLink>
  </div>
</template>
```

::callout
Although it is called an 'error page' it's not a route and shouldn't be placed in your `~/pages` directory. For the same reason, you shouldn't use `definePageMeta` within this page. That being said, you can still use layouts in the error file, by utilizing the [`NuxtLayout`](/docs/api/components/nuxt-layout) component and specifying the name of the layout.
::

The error page has a single prop - `error` which contains an error for you to handle.

The `error` object provides the following fields:
```ts
{
  url: string
  statusCode: number
  statusMessage: string
  message: string
  description: string
  data: any
}
```

If you have an error with custom fields they will be lost; you should assign them to `data` instead:

```ts
throw createError({
  statusCode: 404,
  statusMessage: 'Page Not Found',
  data: {
    myCustomField: true
  }
})
```
